---
layout: post
title: 8. Ask for help.
---
Getting help when you are well and truly stuck will speed up your learning by an order of magnitude. If you have Googled your problem to death, spent hours trying new approaches, but still cannot figure out the solution, it may be time to ask for help.

(In fact, it probably was the time to ask for help a while ago – you will rarely encounter problems that a more experienced coder can’t solve faster.)

All practicing bioinformaticians got help from someone while they were first learning (and likely still do). Many feel that it is their duty to pay it forward. It is the circle of bioinformatics life.

Outside of the workplace, my two favorite sources of help are friends and internet forums. There are good and bad ways to ask for help. The worst way to ask for help is to make someone else your computer monkey - that is, to ask for someone else to solve your problems for you. Whether you are gchatting a friend or writing a post on Stack Exchange, try to follow these guidelines:
* Introduce a quick description of your problem 
*	Include a brief toy example (e.g., a tiny matrix, a trimmed-down version of your function) so that someone else can replicate your problem 
*	Include any error messages you have received
*	Show that you’ve already tried to solve the problem - describe any actions you have taken to solve the problem on your own, and why they didn’t work (This part is critical)

Often, just following that outline gives me a new idea that helps me troubleshoot my code on my own. 

Next: [Step Eight](https://kmuench.github.io/2020/03/18/step-9/) - or return to the [overview](https://kmuench.github.io/2020/03/18/ten-steps-to-bioinf/).

<p class="message">
PRO TIP: Be courageous in asking for help, but be kind to the people who take the time to do so. A genuine thank-you, and a token of appreciation - an upvote, a bar of chocolate - go a long way.
</p>
