
## STEP FIVE: Use Github for version control.
There may be someone reading over your shoulder right now who tells you that you can skip this step. Please - ignore them! That person likely never codes collaboratively with others, never makes mistakes, or has zero ambitions to work in a job that uses coding. (Yeah, I said it, shoulder-reader! Fight me!)

Version control means keeping track of the many documents you produce as you revise and re-revise your pipeline. Without even knowing it, you probably already use your own sort of version control system for your written documents (e.g., ‘myGrant_1.docx’, ‘myGrant_2.docx’, ‘myGrant_FINAL.docx’, ‘myGrant_FINAL_advisorEdits.docx’...look familiar?). 

Git is a software tool that is really helpful for doing complex, streamlined version control. It works for any kind of text file - cookie recipes, dissertation drafts, or code. It cuts down the number of confusing files on your computer, and helps you keep track of tangents when you try things a different way. Github is a website that hosts what you create with Git. You can find many wonderful tutorials online (I love <a href = 'https://happygitwithr.com/'>happygitwithR.com</a>. You could also check out <a href = 'https://ourcodingclub.github.io/2017/02/27/git.html'>Our Coding Club</a> or <a href='https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4945047/'>this other fun list</a>).

Github is really helpful when you want to send other people code, work on the same piece of code as your student, or back up code because you accidentally deleted it (what, me? never).

Your Github also becomes your professional portfolio. I’ve heard it said that most industry jobs will not even consider you if you do not include your Github on your CV. The code you write, as well as the clarity of its documentation and the amount of activity on your page, are all helpful indicators of your skill level.

One drawback is that all your code is publicly accessible unless you pay for a Pro account. This is non-viable for many biologists working in today’s competitive research environment. However, <b>Git student trainees with an academic email can upgrade to a Pro account for <a href='https://education.github.com/pack'>free</a>.</b> 
